# Volumetrias

En el presente Proyecto se pone a disposición un script que permite descargar datos de Volumetría cerebral de pacientes control, que fueron procesados a partir de Resonancias Magnéticas Cerebrales adquiridas de ADNI, ABIDE y PPMI [[1],[2],[3]]. Los algoritmos utilizados en su elaboración permiten evaluar la volumetría cerebral y espesor cortical mediante dos métodos, Freesurfer y vol2Brain [[4][5]]. La descarga puede ser definiendo sexo, rango etareo y algoritmo utilizado.
Sobre el final del script se detalla como visualizar los datos y las imágenes de resonancias magnéticas.

En caso de requerir los datos escribir a ssanudo@uns.edu.ar

[1] Data collection and sharing for this project was funded by the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (National Institutes of Health Grant U01 AG024904) and DOD ADNI (Department of Defense award number W81XWH-12-2-0012). ADNI is funded by the National Institute on Aging, the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering, and through generous contributions from the following: AbbVie, Alzheimer’s Association; Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation; Araclon Biotech; BioClinica, Inc.; Biogen; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; CereSpir, Inc.; Cogstate; Eisai Inc.; Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Eli Lilly and Company; EuroImmun; F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and its affiliated company Genentech, Inc.; Fujirebio; GE Healthcare; IXICO Ltd.; Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy Research & Development, LLC.; Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development LLC.; Lumosity; Lundbeck; Merck & Co., Inc.; Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC.;  NeuroRx Research; Neurotrack Technologies; Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation; Pfizer Inc.; Piramal Imaging; Servier; Takeda Pharmaceutical Company; and Transition Therapeutics. The Canadian Institutes of Health Research is providing funds to support ADNI clinical sites in Canada. Private sector contributions are facilitated by the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health (www.fnih.org). The grantee organization is the Northern California Institute for Research and Education, and the study is coordinated by the Alzheimer’s Therapeutic Research Institute at the University of Southern California. ADNI data are disseminated by the Laboratory for Neuro Imaging at the University of Southern California.
[2] Cameron Craddock, Yassine Benhajali, Carlton Chu, Francois Chouinard, Alan Evans, András Jakab, Budhachandra Singh Khundrakpam, John David Lewis, Qingyang Li, Michael Milham, Chaogan Yan, Pierre Bellec (2013). The Neuro Bureau Preprocessing Initiative: open sharing of preprocessed neuroimaging data and derivatives. In Neuroinformatics 2013, Stockholm, Sweden.
[3] The PPMI is an ongoing international multicenter observational cohort study investigating disease progression in PD with several PD populations and populations at-risk for developing PD and related disorders [PPMI1,PPMI2]. The methodology and details of the study assessments are available on the PPMI website (ppmi-info.org). The Institutional Review Board approved the PPMI program of each participating site and all participants gave their written informed consent to participate in the program. [PPMI1] K. Marek, D. Jennings et. al., The Parkinson progression marker initiative (PPMI), Prog. Neurobiol. 95 (2011) 629–635, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pneurobio.2011.09.005. [PPMI2] K. Marek, S. Chowdhury, et. al., The Parkinson’s progression markers initiative (PPMI) – establishing a PD biomarker cohort, Ann. Clin. Trans. Neurol. 5 (2018) 1460–1477, https://doi.org/10.1002/acn3.644. 
[4] To extract reliable volume and thickness estimates, images where automatically processed with the longitudinal stream (Reuter et al., 2012) in FreeSurfer. Specifically an unbiased within-subject template space and image is created using robust, inverse consistent registration (Reuter et al., 2010). Several processing steps, such as skull stripping, Talairach transforms, atlas registration as well as spherical surface maps and parcellations are then initialized with common information from the within-subject template, significantly increasing reliability and statistical power (Reuter et al., 2012). 
(Reuter et al., 2012) Reuter, M., Schmansky, N.J., Rosas, H.D., Fischl, B. 2012. Within-Subject Template Estimation for Unbiased Longitudinal Image Analysis. Neuroimage 61 (4), 1402-1418. http://reuter.mit.edu/papers/reuter-long12.pdf
[5] volBrain platform is an online open MRI brain volumetry system. Our mission is to help researchers all over the world to obtain automatically volumetric brain information from their MRI data without the need of learning complex software packages or having expensive computational infrastructures in their local sites. volBrain platform works in a fully automatic manner and is able to provide brain analysis without any human interaction in few minutes. We have currently deployed pipelines dealing with different brain areas and diseases from both mono-modal and multi-modal MRI data. This online platform is free for non-commercial and non-medical purposes (research only). vol2Brain: A new online Pipeline for whole Brain MRI analysis,Jose V. Manjon and Jose E. Romero and Roberto Vivo-Hernando and Gregorio Rubio and Fernando Aparici and Mariam de la Iglesia-Vaya and Pierrick Coupe,2022, https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.03920

    
